Migration complete (#10652)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/OV_Runtime_UG/migration_ov_2_0/preprocessing.md

# Preprocessing {#openvino_2_0_preprocessing}

## Introduction

> Inference Engine API has preprocessing capabilities which are built on top of model expressed as `ngraph::Function` (now, it's `ov::Model`). One of the problems with it - preprocessing operations are not a part of the main model graph, so they are stored and executed separatelly:

Reviewer: Suggesting to just describe old and new behavior, not stating that 'old API had problems' 
```suggestion
Inference Engine API has preprocessing capabilities which are built on top of model expressed as `ngraph::Function` (now, it's `ov::Model`). Before OpenVINO Runtime API 2.0 preprocessing operations were not a part of the main model graph, so they were stored and executed separately:
```

- Preprocessing stored in `InferenceEngine::CNNNetwork` was lost during saving back to IR file format.
- Preprocessing operations are executed on CPU processors for most of the inference plugins. So, instead of occupying of acceleators, CPU processor is also busy with inference tasks.

> OpenVINO Runtime API 2.0 introduces [new way of adding preprocessing operations to the model](../preprocessing_overview.md) - each preprocessing or postprocessing operation is inserted directly to the model and compiled together with inference part of the model via a single ov::Core::compile_model call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenVINO Runtime API 2.0 introduces [new way of adding preprocessing operations to the model](../preprocessing_overview.md) - each preprocessing or postprocessing operation is integrated directly to the model and compiled together with inference part of the model via a single `ov::Core::compile_model` call.
```

Having preprocessing operations as a part of official OpenVINO opset allows to read and serialize preprocessed model to the IR file format.

In OpenVINO Runtime 2.0 the following new operations are introduced to be a part of OpenVINO `opset8`:
- [NV12toRGB](../../ops/image/NV12toRGB_8.md)
- [NV12toBGR](../../ops/image/NV12toBGR_8.md)
- [I420toBGR](../../ops/image/I420toBGR_8.md)
- [I420toRGB](../../ops/image/I420toRGB_8.md)
All other preprocessing operations are expressed by means of existing operations and their combinations.

> It's also important to mention that since OpenVINO 2.0, the Runtime API does not assume any default layouts like Inference Engine did, for example `{ 1, 224, 224, 3 }` is supposed to be `NCHW` layout while it's not true. So, some preprocessing capabilities in OpenVINO Runtime API 2.0 requires explicitly set layouts, see [Layout overview](../layout_overview.md) how to do it. For example, to perform image scaling by partial dimensions `H` and `W`, preprocessing needs to know what dimensions are `H` and `W`.

Reviewer: `while it's not true` sounds to me like 'everything was bad, now it is good' (but 'bad' is kept for compatibility reasons). Maybe add some link to section below regarding layout conversion?

Author: rephrased a bit not to keep `bad` semantic

> **NOTE:** Use Model Optimizer preprocessing capabilities to insert and optimize preprocessing operations to the model. In this case you don't need to read model in runtime application and set preprocessing, you can use [model caching feature](../Model_caching_overview.md) to improve time to inference stage.

The steps below demonstrates how to migrate preprocessing scenarios from Inference Engine API to OpenVINO Runtime API 2.0.
The examples below supposes we need to preprocess a model input with tensor name `tensor_name`, in Inferenece Engine API which used operation names to address the data, it's called `operation_name`.

### Mean and scale values

Inference Engine API:

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_preprocessing_migration.cpp mean_scale

OpenVINO Runtime API 2.0:

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_preprocessing_migration.cpp ov_mean_scale

### Precision and layout conversions

Inference Engine API:

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_preprocessing_migration.cpp conversions

OpenVINO Runtime API 2.0:

@snippet docs/snippets/ov_preprocessing_migration.cpp ov_conversions

> ### Color space conversions

Reviewer: Probably this section can be moved below, after 'Image scaling'. Or have 2 snippets: one for RGB->BGR (here), another for NV12_TWO_PLANES->BGR (last section). I'm not sure that NV12->BGR conversion is widely used, so 'resize' is more popular use case than NV12->BGR (but maybe less popular than RGB->BGR)

Author: ok, agree to swap the snippets.
